there is a certain school of thought
that you should know what a youtube
video is about within the first 60
seconds so here it is I do appreciate
the new videos the Jeff Nelson's
uploading I do appreciate the research
he's presenting however I can remember
examples of this same guy Jeff Nelson
veg source being extremely irresponsible
dishonest and defamatory both many years
ago and also quite recently and a lot of
the evidence of that bad behavior from
him in the past has been deleted has
been concealed here on YouTube now I
understand that nobody is going to
investigate the video that I'm alluding
to there at the bottom of the screen at
the bottom of the screen there's that
vegan couple complaining about Jeff
Nelson's conduct for 40 minutes solid I
know that none of you are gonna want to
go and relive that controversy or
investigate that controversy the problem
is for people like myself who have a
long memory who have direct experience
dealing with Jeff Nelson and his lies
and his behavior that sometimes is
merely defamatory but sometimes frankly
seems irrational and insane the problem
is that people like myself are in a
position now to say hey hey hey we have
seen a lot of red flags with this guy
we've seen red flags over many years and
in some cases there have been red flags
in videos that were uploaded recently
like uploaded within the last three
months but those videos have now
disappeared
Jeff covers his own tracks after
creating these controversies so yeah
that there is real reason to be
skeptical there's real reason to be
concerned dr. Fuhrman could have made a
video which was 16 seconds rather than
16 minutes long if he had actual proof
that Scott followed his diet all dr.
Fuhrman needed to do was to show us the
original email that Scott sent to him
back
2008 in which Scott said he lost 331
pounds
following the nutrit Aryan diet if dr.
Furman had that he could show it on
screen and that would be the end of the
story anytime you give someone an award
for improvement you say hey you're the
most improved in this competition it may
mean that you have a really high opinion
of the quality of work they're doing now
or it may mean that you have a really
low opinion of the quality of work they
weren't doing in the past when we look
at the current no scandal-mongering
of Jeff Nelson I would definitely say he
is one of the most improved youtubers
because I can remember how terrible his
content was two years ago three years
ago four years ago currently he is
slinging mud he is making accusations
and sometimes defamatory statements
towards leading medical doctors in the
vegan movement including dr. joel coen
including dr. Greger whom of lately
criticized myself and especially
including dr. Fuhrman now I had mixed
feelings about this I am NOT gonna sit
here and tell you that everything Jeff
Nelson is presenting is nonsense I think
that Jeff has turned up a few important
and useful observations I think he
actually has grounds for engaging in
this kind of critiquing discussion but
the problem is he really has discredited
himself with years of unethical behavior
here on YouTube and he continues to
describe himself as I'm gonna explain
just a moment by making a deeply
personal ad hominem defamatory remarks
about people now is your memory long
enough to remember the peculiar scandal
of durianrider collaborating with Jeff
Nelson is your memory long enough to
remember the peculiar scandal of vegan
cheetah collaborating with Jeff Nelson
the most peculiar and bizarre
controversy of them all no doubt was
Jeff Nelson's benighted court case
against Chantelle Robin and if you
google around you're gonna find some
strange echoes of this I was within six
degrees of separation of various people
who were a queue
to name who were somehow connected to
this court case everyone said oh yeah
yeah there is actually there is actually
some legal paperwork somewhere there was
something that really happened in a
courthouse somewhere connected to the
obscure youtuber Chantal Robin who had
dared to criticize Jeff Nelson now I
don't know the legal details I can't get
the legal details and Jeff has long
since deleted every trace of this he
wants to have it forgotten he wants to
sweep it under the rug and I know it's
hard to believe that any of this ever
really happened this is an example of
one of the few videos still on YouTube
complaining that this guy received legal
paperwork from Jeff Nelson or from Jeff
Nelson's team of lawyers that this
actually did happen this still is a
fundraiser online that raised seven
thousand dollars interesting to know who
where her that money went in this in
this court case and Jeff himself
evidently had no idea who Chantal Robin
was so he tried to launch this court
case without knowing the name or the
nationality of the youtuber who had
allegedly defamed him or criticized him
overly harshly or bullied him it's
absolutely astonishing that Jeff managed
to sue everyone except me so far I I
don't know if I'm next maybe the next
controversy is gonna be Jeff trying to
hold me into corner maybe he didn't
bother because he knew I was a Canadian
citizen and that would get into
international law rather than national
law but ironically Chantelle Robin
actually is Canadian I know exactly who
she is it's always been quite obvious
she's someone who's known me on the
internet since before I had a YouTube
channel hilariously if you wanted a who
Chantal Robin is she was a philosophy
major in a university in Canada and she
tried for many years to use her
appearance and her love of video games
to earn money here on the Internet you
know writing articles about video games
and posing and revealing clothing on
Instagram I assume she did that also you
know when live-streaming herself playing
video games but you know there's a lot
of competition
for that role there are a lot of
good-looking women playing video games
on the internet in revealing attire but
yes she was at one time also an aspiring
vegan activist I'm guessing she lost
interest in feegan activism when she
figured out there is even less money in
that game than there is in playing video
games in any case it is not in some
shallow or flippant way that I say that
Jeff Nelson has really seriously
discredit himself through years and
years of being a dishonest immoral bad
actor engaged in drama mongering many of
the criticisms Jeff Nelson has presented
many not all really are substantive and
worth hearing
unfortunately I mean it seems like it's
a roll of the dice with this guy a
significant percentage the criticisms
he's you know advanced are baseless
unreasonable exaggerated maudlin can I
use the word maudlin and he took a step
into outright defamation against dr. Joe
Kahn now let's just pause who is Kahn
I met Joe Kahn when I was in Detroit he
wouldn't remember me I wouldn't remember
him if my girlfriend didn't say to me oh
do you know who you just met that was
dr. Joe Kahn dr. Joe Kahn he's quite a
good performance lately on the podcast
of PCRM PCRM is Physicians Committee for
Responsible medicine he is a relatively
charismatic and lively advocate for
veganism unfortunately he is not an
ethical vegan like Jeff he's someone
who's just advancing it as a diet and
he's someone who declares common cause
even with some of the carnivores in
saying that basically his enemy is the
standard American diet nevertheless it's
worth mentioning that what dr. Joe Kahn
does on YouTube is fundamentally very
similar to what dr. Greger does but not
even at ten percent of the price I mean
I think this is one person the price as
I've mentioned dr. Gregers budget back
in 2017 was 1.5 million dollars
I saw the financial numbers for 2018 and
it was up to two million dr. Greger is
burning through millions of dollars per
year year after year doing what Joel
connoisseur doing for
free just sitting down and taking a
minute to read a peer-reviewed article
and then make a youtube video chatting
about it so this is one of the bizarre
things about 21st century capitalism -
different people can serve exactly the
same social function here on the
internet and one of them earns a salary
of 200 thousand US dollars per year out
of a budget of two million dollars per
year for their foundation and another
one just does it in his spare time while
being a legitimate doctor who actually
has a medical practice helping heart
patients to say Joel Cohn unlike dr.
Greger he really is helping people with
heart problems face to face every day
and by the way also Joel Khan works with
his son in owning and operating several
vegan restaurants the vegan restaurant I
went to that's again it's cooperatively
owned and run by dr. Khan and his son um
it was really more of a cocktail
language and I think that's actually
part of the basis for this controversy
of what to mention I think dr. Joel Khan
spends a lot of time hanging out you
know in this cocktail bar in this vegan
cocktail bar and you know it shows in
his mannerisms and his style of talking
it makes them a much more lively guests
when he's on a podcast like PCRM but you
know I just say his style of expression
is this very kind of relaxed you know
drawing-room a banter so what does Jeff
Nelson do just to drive in the nail a
little bit just to create unreasonable
and irrational conflict in what could be
a totally reasonable down-to-earth
discussion between people with just
slightly differing opinions just
slightly different political positions
on an issue of course Jeff went ahead an
accused joel khan of being a creep
towards his own daughters Nina and
Aranda Jeff Nelson is the parent of two
young women identical twins who exploit
their own sexuality in the Internet to
the greatest extent possible and who are
constantly complaining about their love
lives on the internet constantly
complaining that they wanted to be
married and have kids
and what their struggles in dating and
yes they appear about 90% naked on the
internet again and again and again and I
guess this is part of their appeal I
don't know what the other part of their
appeal is to be honest with you and of
course Jeff can't just deal with the
scientific medical political ethical
issues no he has to step out of line and
say that at some party sometime joel
khan was chatting with his daughters
Nina and Rhonda and therefore allegedly
Joel Khan was a was a creep towards his
daughters and you know I mean again this
is the old Jeff Nelson shining through
this is who Jeff has always been for at
least four years Jeff I mean you can't
just deal with the facts in a factual
way can you you can't just respond to
criticism on YouTube you've got to
launch a lawsuit or press criminal
charges against shantel Robin over
nothing course my own experience Jeff
created a huge conflict with me out of
nothing but there was absolutely no
cause for conflict between the two of us
this is how Jeff Nelson has lived his
whole life he is a vegan activist acting
in bad faith and yet at the same time as
I've said before you know I've got to
give him credit he really has improved
he is now presenting some videos of some
substance reflecting some legitimate
research on his part but it's
discredited because it's mixed in with
this poisonous defamatory drama
mongering attitude right and what's the
conclusion this video guys if you have
something substantive to say about
somebody whatever the allegation is
whatever the nature of the dispute is
don't call them a creep you're
discrediting yourself what if
hypothetically this allegation were true
what if dr. Cohn actually wanted to have
kids with Nina and Aranda they're up
here on the internet every day saying
how hard it is to find a man who will
have a baby with them I don't know
Joel Cohn is rich and
vegan Nina and Rhonda are rich and
they're vegan for all I care they could
have a test-tube baby together he could
be a sperm donor and have kids with them
he could seduce them and they could
become his second and third wives in a
polyamorous marriage I don't care if
it's between consenting adults and even
Randa are approximately age 27 now 27
year old women obviously worried about
turning 30 and not any old boyfriends oh
I don't care
it is completely immaterial to the
medical advice of dr. Khan and it's
completely immaterial to his credibility
as an advocate for veganism to claim
that he flirted with Nina and ran at a
party or that he quote unquote was a
creep at a party an allegation so vague
that nobody can ever defend themselves
against it right but you know what it is
relevant to you it's relevant to the
person making the accusation chef it's
relevant to you any your credibility
Jeff you are the one who loses
credibility by trading in the sort of
muck
[Music]